so far our SLS class has these two
methods we made a sequence of these for
non-obvious improvements and we want our
s list to gain even more power and more
capabilities and go off and grow up and
do whatever it is that s let's do in
adulthood and to get there what we're
gonna do is add two additional methods
add last and sighs partially because we
want to get a little more practice with
just building data structures but also
because I want some motivation for the
other two non obvious improvements we're
gonna do so what I'm gonna recommend you
do is try writing at last or sighs on
your own maybe on paper and then watch
me do it here so I'm gonna start with ad
last on so I'm gonna call this method
it's gonna be public void as last int X
and in keeping with normal Java
convention I will put it above main and
this adds an item to the end of the list
so what might this look like well I'm
gonna write it iteratively you could
also do it recursively I'm gonna do it
iteratively and it's gonna look a lot
like what we did in the previous lecture
so I'm gonna say int list P equals first
and then I'm gonna say while P dot next
is not equal to null P equals P next and
the goal of this little chunk of code
the goal of this little chunk of code is
to scan P to the end of the list so
Mookie until it reaches the end list and
once you've done that you can simply
chase you can just simply say px equals
new int no X no okay so that's add last
we can also do a lot at last
say 20 and if we run this let's see what
happens okay any errors Oh ant nodes a
node that's we run this and it runs and
the first item is 5 now of course
running this code it is not clear that
it worked properly and in fact if you
look at our list of methods there's no
way that we can see what the last item
even is so we could add additional
methods but instead what I'm gonna do is
I am going to use our Java visualizer
and see what I get
so after this code finishes running we
ended up getting a layout that looks
something like this
the L variable points at our middleman
which has a first variable that then
points at our naked recursive data
structure and I'll make one little note
if you try running this code on your own
and you end up getting a visualization
that looks something like this ok nested
structure it's just another visual
representation of the same thing if you
don't want that to happen make sure that
you click prefer non nesting and
vertical layouts so just a quick note if
you want box and pointer diagrams you've
got to click that box for our lists so
that's get back so what about size what
might size look like now this one if you
didn't do add last if you just sat there
and watched me do it that's okay I won't
be too upset but this one I want you to
really try I want you to really think
about it look at the instance variables
here and think what should size look
like try writing it up that's my way of
trying to stare you into trying it
alright
so if you try it which hopefully you did
you'll find that trying to figure out
what the base case is is tricky you also
find that the recursive case is just
equally strange it's like if I want to
do the recursive case like we did in the
previous lecture it would seem that you
want to do something like return first
dot next nose like some kind of
recursive case and you get a little
stuck so the issue here is that the size
method when we're writing it for s list
the essent list data structure itself is
not recursive it does not have s list
pointers so the common strategy that
will adopt and then you'll you'll see
this time and time again as you write
recursive data structures later in this
course you will often create a private
static helper method in this case also
known as size is gonna take a particular
node and this I'm gonna give a very
clear comment here return the size of
the list that starts at int node P so
here now this is a naked recursive data
structure this speaks the the secret
language of the gods
this data structure it's just doing the
usual stuff we're used to with these
data structures let me go back to the
picture and compare so when working with
s lists our pointers point to the
middleman we are now going to have a
method that's thinking about data
structures in these terms in the naked
recursive way we're we're gonna pointers
to any place in the list okay so now
how's that gonna work well now it's
gonna be a lot like lecture 3 I'm gonna
do something like this if P dot next
equals null then I can just return 1
otherwise you want to return 1 plus the
size of P next so if the size method is
being called on this note for example
it'll just return 1 but if it's called
on this one will add 1 plus the size of
this list over here okay so that's what
our private static method looks like now
this is a very common pattern when
working with recursive data structures
that you'll have a public method
that speaks the language of mortals and
a private matter that speaks the
language of the gods so the public
language art say that the middleman the
public method needs to use this method
right here and in this case we'll just I
say the size of first that little face I
just made was me trying to get you to
think all right and so let's see if the
size method seems to work here okay
indeed it does and if you want to try it
out you can take this code that I've
just written put it through the
visualizer and make sure it makes sense
but hopefully the idea is clear so to
summarize this notion those I'm sorry
to summarize at last iteratively not a
lot of surprises you know it's kind of
like what we're used to but first sighs
doing it recursively we had to adopt a
new programming pattern where we created
a private static method that spoke the
language of the gods